I thought a lot of videos talking about
the boycott mentality and it's wonderful
it's a huge advantage that veganism is
at its core a boycott that you know the
impact it has in your daily life is that
you refuse to buy some things but that
can lead people into this strangely
passive view of what their relationship
is to other vegans and what their
relationship is 2x vegans into the non
vegan society and what have you and I
mean it's interesting to me because
these types of questions about
friendship cooperation collaboration
they're very different as soon as we
even start talking about working with
somebody is that somebody you would work
with you know as opposed to this more
passive view it's not a spiritual view
sometimes people view veganism
spiritualistic alee people coming out of
the raw vegan white people with yoga
mats side of things people coming from
the Guru's in spandex side of the gate
they may have a very very passive view
of indeed and then it becomes all about
judging whether or not a person has a
beautiful soul one one person shut me
down for that on Facebook one of my
fellow vegans here on YouTube apparently
I was not enough of a beautiful soul
today I'm shame too because she told me
the opposite just a few weeks earlier me
she actually used those words and called
me a beautiful soul but she later said
like I feel like talking to you just
isn't helping my spiritual progress I
only talk to people where I feel I'm
growing as a human being from the
conversation damn your loss your loss
girl you know it's true you may not you
may not expand your mind spiritually but
by talking to me you can hone your
nihilistic anti social instincts to a
razor sharp point and become a
devastating wit in life it's true you
may be spiritually bankrupt it by
hanging out it's true you know roll in
the mud you come up dirty hanging out
with nihilists you come out a bit a bit
nihilistic
anyway look I'm going to tell an
anecdote which in my mind is directly
sailing it to the point I'm making here
I knew a guy named Walter and it's going
to be really obvious why I'm only using
his first name as this video progresses
and Walter on two different occasions in
front of me gave his opinion for why he
believed pedophilia was okay and now
this isn't a context of Southeast Asia
I've been living in places like Thailand
Cambodia Laos and here in Yunnan where
I'm living now and he basically
presented the exact same opinion in two
very different context with me out one
we were alone face to face talking and I
was shocked but I could tell he wasn't
just saying it to be shocking he wasn't
just trying to be edgy and i responded
not with anger but in a very very
methodical rigorous logical way he was
actually in gala engaging what we call
an appeal to nature fallacy he was
saying that this kind of behavior was
natural and had always existed in
society and i replied without pause
without hesitation without missing a
beat I said yes murder also is natural
and as always exist in society
specifically brothers murdering other
brothers brought murder would be in the
family fratricide has always existed in
every society and there's very clear
reason for it this very clear
anthropological rationale in terms of
competition over limited resources who
is going to inherit the farm from your
father brother against brother it's
natural it's existed in every society
those with us so does this justify it
morally no not at all so I had that kind
of response to it and there was another
situation where we went out to dinner
about four guys and the other two guys I
didn't really know was my first time
meeting them at that dinner party if you
like and again you have to realize in
Southeast Asia it's not academic in
Southeast Asia there are a lot of
foreign pedophiles there are a lot of
sex tourists who are there for illicit
underage sex now I could
more of this again it's something I did
do research on especially when I was in
Cambodia but no also there was a project
in Thailand link to that and you know
anyway in some tourist minds it's
exaggerated but I think many other
tourists want to turn a blind eye do it
it is a scary side of sex determine sex
tourism in Southeast Asia and you know
it may weigh heavily on your mind but I
remember when Walter made this same
point he presented his ethical case one
of the guys at the table who I didn't
know you could see he was ready to jump
over the table and punch Walters face in
he was ready to kill him and with a
topic like that you never know you know
you never know who at that table has
been a victim maybe he was molested at a
kid maybe his girlfriend was a victim in
his ex-girlfriend maybe you know maybe
he knows somebody maybe he's just you
know maybe it's just some of his
research to read about but you know why
why did that one died at the table get
so upset so quick and you know a lot of
the time with men there are some forms
of violence they exhibit openly but
there are also times when somebody gets
real quiet and gets real still and it's
real serious and you know if you had
jump to take over the SAT there and
watch more to get his fees powdered in
for being a jackass with no problem
frankly Walter I'm not on your side of
mr. Speer come look these types of
ethical differences I think the only way
to deal with them is through honesty
there are a lot of people who say oh
well you know you ought to have it in
you to reach out to and be warm and
fuzzy toward non-vegans reduce it Aryans
and X vegans x vegans being the hardest
of all my reply to that is why pretend
because that's all you're talking about
is faking it you're making a moral
principle out of faking it in saying you
ought to your precisely saying the P
ought to do something they don't feel
they don't think they don't believe
you're you know when you do feel that
way I mean you know I know all kinds of
people who eat meat why positive
emotional relationship there are
positive relations with them for that
reason there they happen to be wonderful
people or people of one or two positive
qualities I appreciate it we meet of
course I want to be coerced into you
know getting wrong with those people
it's the other ninety eight percent
we're talking about here right and in
the case of X vegans let's say somebody
was your friend they were your colleague
and now they're an axe vegan the way we
evaluate these things the way we talk
about them I really feel it's so much
different when we're not talking about
friendship as something static something
passive something inert but something
active collaborative cooperative if
we're talking about working together
that guy is that the sort of guy I can
work with is that the sort of guy I
would work with would I trust him with
money would I trust him on a project you
know just putting it in that framework
in my mind I think changes things
profoundly now a guy like Walter I think
that's a really good example for just
that reason Walter had good qualities
and bad but let me tell you you're
living in Southeast Asia and you've
heard that of that guy he had some
anecdotes about it too he had an
anecdote about how once he checked into
a hotel and the hotel owner had
something like an eight-year-old girl
there he didn't know the girls age but
he would see was guessing and the hotel
owner I guess the hotel er thought that
Walter looks like a pedophile I guess he
just came to that he made that inference
and the top hotel owner was offering to
set them up okay now all kinds of people
react to that in different ways I think
some people would freak out and punch
the hotel owner in the face like some
people would again you don't know what
demons people are carrying you don't
know what their brain table on the end
of the day you don't know who just grew
up reading too many Batman comic books
and decides this is the day when they're
finally going to play Batman alright
that's that's a big shadow hanging over
Western culture yes it is
boys girls of all ages you know you know
what I'm talking about um what do you
work with somebody if you know that
maybe just maybe they're engaging in
that kind of deeply immoral deeply
unsettling activity even if it's just
once in a while would you want to work
with somebody make money with somebody
trust somebody being a project with
somebody whether a political project a
charity or a business if you know those
are their values they live by they bring
the table those are the excuses to make
for themselves this used to make for
others just on that one isolated ethical
issue of drawing the line about underage
sex prostitution paedophilia say for
most of us it's enough for most of us
it's enough to cut somebody off and say
I can't work with that guy that doesn't
mean you're going to punch him in the
face doesn't mean you're going to treat
him like crap doesn't mean you're going
to bring it up every time you see him
like oh there's Walter you know that
piece of [ __ ] it doesn't mean you're
going to mention every time but i do
think just that one difference for many
people would mean you draw that line and
say he is no friend of mine he's go
colleague of mine and he's on the
project then then I'm not so you got to
be real with yourself and you got to be
real with everyone else in your life if
you know somebody makes excuses for
eating veal if you know that they go
home at the end of the day and they make
up in their own minds oh well what's the
harm of buying shrimp cheese etc ah
that's something they're probably doing
three times a day every day and there's
the act itself the consequences the
decision the implication but above all
else there's the excuse making activity
that you know is going on in their own
mind and with an ex vegan you know the
excuses are on another level
because they already knew and are
choosing to forget choosing to ignore
everything that you and I know as videos